feat: add `ml/base/sgd/params/struct-factory` (#13875)
stdlib-js/stdlib: lib/node_modules/@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/params/struct-factory/README.md

See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# structFactory

> Create a new [`struct`][@stdlib/dstructs/struct] constructor tailored to a specified floating-point data type.

<!-- Section to include introductory text. Make sure to keep an empty line after the intro `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="intro">

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<!-- Package usage documentation. -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var structFactory = require( '@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/params/struct-factory' );
```

#### structFactory( dtype )

Returns a new [`struct`][@stdlib/dstructs/struct] constructor tailored to a specified floating-point data type.

```javascript
var Struct = structFactory( 'float64' );
// returns <Function>

var s = new Struct();
// returns <Struct>
```

The function supports the following parameters:

-   **dtype**: floating-point data type for storing floating-point parameters. Must be either `'float64'` or `'float32'`.

A returned [`struct`][@stdlib/dstructs/struct] constructor supports the following fields:

> -   **penalty**: [regularization function][@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/penalties] to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **penalty**: [regularization function][@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/penalties].
```

-   **penaltyParams**: parameters specific to the regularization function being used. Must be an array having length `2`, with any unused elements set to zero. The expected array contents depend on `penalty`:

    -   `'l1'`, `'l2'`: `[ lambda, 0.0 ]`
    -   `'elasticnet'`: `[ lambda, l1Ratio ]`
    -   `'none'`: `[ 0.0, 0.0 ]` (unused)

    where

    -   **lambda**: regularization parameter which determines the amount of shrinkage inflicted on the model coefficients.
    -   **l1Ratio**: mixing parameter on the interval `[0,1]` which determines the relative contribution of the L1 and L2 penalties.

> -   **learningRate**: [learning rate scheduler][@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/learning-rates] to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **learningRate**: [learning rate scheduler][@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/learning-rates].
```

-   **learningRateParams**: parameters specific to the learning rate scheduler being used. Must be an array having length `2`, with any unused elements set to zero. The expected array contents depend on `learningRate`:

    -   `'basic'`: `[ 0.0, 0.0 ]` (unused)
    -   `'constant'`: `[ eta0, 0.0 ]`
    -   `'invscaling'`: `[ eta0, powerT ]`
    -   `'pegasos'`: `[ lambda, 0.0 ]`

    where

    -   **eta0**: initial learning rate.
    -   **powerT**: exponent controlling how quickly the learning rate decreases.
    -   **lambda**: regularization parameter.

> -   **lossFunction**: [loss function][@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/loss-functions] to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **lossFunction**: [loss function][@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/loss-functions].
```

limitations under the License.

-->

# structFactory

> Create a new [`struct`][@stdlib/dstructs/struct] constructor tailored to a specified floating-point data type.

<!-- Section to include introductory text. Make sure to keep an empty line after the intro `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="intro">

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<!-- Package usage documentation. -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var structFactory = require( '@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/params/struct-factory' );
```

#### structFactory( dtype )

Returns a new [`struct`][@stdlib/dstructs/struct] constructor tailored to a specified floating-point data type.

```javascript
var Struct = structFactory( 'float64' );
// returns <Function>

var s = new Struct();
// returns <Struct>
```

The function supports the following parameters:

-   **dtype**: floating-point data type for storing floating-point parameters. Must be either `'float64'` or `'float32'`.

A returned [`struct`][@stdlib/dstructs/struct] constructor supports the following fields:

-   **penalty**: [regularization function][@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/penalties] to be used.

> -   **penaltyParams**: parameters specific to the regularization function being used. Must be a list having length `2`, with any unused elements set to zero. The expected list contents depend on `penalty`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **penaltyParams**: parameters specific to the regularization function being used. Must be an array having length `2`, with any unused elements set to zero. The expected array contents depend on `penalty`:
```

distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# structFactory

> Create a new [`struct`][@stdlib/dstructs/struct] constructor tailored to a specified floating-point data type.

<!-- Section to include introductory text. Make sure to keep an empty line after the intro `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="intro">

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<!-- Package usage documentation. -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var structFactory = require( '@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/params/struct-factory' );
```

#### structFactory( dtype )

Returns a new [`struct`][@stdlib/dstructs/struct] constructor tailored to a specified floating-point data type.

```javascript
var Struct = structFactory( 'float64' );
// returns <Function>

var s = new Struct();
// returns <Struct>
```

The function supports the following parameters:

-   **dtype**: floating-point data type for storing floating-point parameters. Must be either `'float64'` or `'float32'`.

> A returned [`struct`][@stdlib/dstructs/struct] constructor supports the following fields:

Reviewer: You can update the following similar to the `index.d.ts` file. For things like `penalty`, `learningRate`, and `lossFunction`, just link out to the respective packages rather than enumerating all the options.

-   **learningRate**: learning rate scheduler to be used, provided as an enumeration constant (see [`@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/learning-rate-resolve-enum`][@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/learning-rate-resolve-enum]). The learning rate scheduler decides how fast or slow the model coefficients are updated toward the optimal coefficients. Must be one of the following:

    -   `'basic'`: basic learning rate function according to the formula `10/(10+t)`, where `t` is the current iteration.
    -   `'constant'`: constant learning rate function.
    -   `'invscaling'`: inverse scaling learning rate function according to the formula `eta0/pow(t, powerT)`.
    -   `'pegasos'`: [Pegasos][@shalevshwartz:2011a] learning rate function according to the formula `1/(lambda*t)`, where `t` is the current iteration.

-   **learningRateParams**: parameters specific to the learning rate scheduler being used. Must be a list having length `2`, with any unused elements set to zero. The expected list contents depend on `learningRate`:

    -   `'basic'`: `[ 0.0, 0.0 ]` (may be omitted)
    -   `'constant'`: `[ eta0, 0.0 ]`
    -   `'invscaling'`: `[ eta0, powerT ]`

>     -   `'pegasos'`: `[ lambda, 0.0 ]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -   **basic**: `[ 0.0, 0.0 ]` (unused)
    -   **constant**: `[ eta0, 0.0 ]`
    -   **invscaling**: `[ eta0, powerT ]`
    -   **pegasos**: `[ lambda, 0.0 ]`
```

Here, it is fine to enumerate because you need to explain the composition of the params array.

    where

    -   **eta0**: initial learning rate. When `learningRate` is `'constant'`, the learning rate is held fixed at `eta0` for all iterations.
    -   **powerT**: exponent controlling how quickly the learning rate decreases. Higher values cause the learning rate to decay more rapidly.
    -   **lambda**: regularization parameter. As the Pegasos scheduler derives its learning rate from the regularization parameter, one should provide the same value as provided for the corresponding element of `penaltyParams`.

> -   **lossFunction**: loss function to be used, provided as an enumeration constant (see [`@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/loss-function-resolve-enum`][@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/loss-function-resolve-enum]). Must be one of the following:

Reviewer: Here, you just need to link out to the package.

```
[loss function][@stdlib/ml/sgd/loss-functions] to be used.
```

We shouldn't explicitly enumerate as it just increases maintenance burden. What happens if we add a new loss function? Then we need to remember to come to this README to update. That is a recipe for drift.

Author: Yeah makes sense, thank you for pointing it out.

-   Consumers should only read as many elements as are applicable to the corresponding penalty, learning rate scheduler, or loss function, with any remaining elements being unused.

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<!-- Package usage examples. -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript
var resolveLREnum = require( '@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/learning-rate-resolve-enum' );
var resolveLossFunctionEnum = require( '@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/loss-function-resolve-enum' );
var resolvePenaltyEnum = require( '@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/penalty-resolve-enum' );
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );
var Float32Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float32' );
var structFactory = require( '@stdlib/ml/base/sgd/params/struct-factory' );

> // Note: hinge loss requires no parameters, and thus we may omit the respective parameter list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
